What's Next: Editor experiments (#950)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2024-02-03-bevy-0.13/index.md

Check out the [**Bevy 0.14 Milestone**](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/milestone/20) for an up-to-date list of current work that contributors are focusing on for **Bevy 0.14**.

> * **More editor experimentation:** Led by the brilliant JMS55, we've opened up a free-form [playground] to define and answer [key questions] about the design of the `bevy_editor`: not through discussion, but through concrete rapid prototyping.

Author: ```suggestion
* **More editor experimentation:** Led by the brilliant JMS55, we've opened up a free-form [playground] to define and answer [key questions] about the design of the `bevy_editor`: not through discussion, but through concrete prototyping.
```

Should we use an in-process editor (less robust to game crashes) or an external one (more complex)?
Should we ship an editor binary (great for non-programmers) or embed it in the game itself (very hackable)?
Let's find out by doing!

There are some incredible mockups, functional prototypes and third-party editor-ajdacent projects out there. Some highlights:

* [] a Bevy-branded editor UI mockup by `@Jacob_` and `@!!&Amy` on Discord, imagining what the UX for an ECS-based editor could look like
* [] [`bevy_animation_graph`]: a fully-functional asset-driven animation graph crate with its own node-based editor for Bevy
* [] [`space_editor`]: a polished Bevy-native third-party scene editor that you can use today!
* [] [`Blender_bevy_components_workflow`]: an impressively functional ecosystem of tools that lets you use Blender as a seamless level and scene editor for your games today.

> * [] `@coreh`'s experiment with reflection-powered inter-process communication, allowing devs to inspect and control their Bevy games from other processes, languages and even devices! [Try it out live]!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [] `@coreh`'s experiment on a [reflection-powered remote protocol], allowing devs to inspect and control their Bevy games from other processes, languages and even devices! [Try it out live]!
```

To avoid sounding redundant with the mention of processes later in the same line, and also mentioning the idea of making into a well defined a protocol.

It's really exciting to see this progress: and we're excited to channel that energy and experience into first-party efforts.

[playground]: https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy_editor_prototypes
[key questions]: https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy_editor_prototypes/discussions/1
[`bevy_animation_graph`]: https://crates.io/crates/bevy_animation_graph
[`space_editor`]: https://github.com/rewin123/space_editor
[`Blender_bevy_components_workflow`]: https://github.com/kaosat-dev/Blender_bevy_components_workflow

> [Try it out live]: https://makeshift-bevy-web-editor.vercel.app/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[reflection-powered remote protocol]: https://github.com/coreh/bevy/pull/1
[Try it out live]: https://makeshift-bevy-web-editor.vercel.app/
```

    space_editor
  </div>
  <div style="grid-column: 2 / span 2">
    <a href="bevy_components.png"><img src="bevy_components.png" style="border-radius: 0; box-shadow: 0 0.5rem 0.5rem rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5)"></a>
    bevy_components
  </div>
  <div style="grid-column: span 2">
    <a href="makeshift_web.png"><img src="makeshift_web.png" style="border-radius: 0; box-shadow: 0 0.5rem 0.5rem rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5)"></a>
    bevy_remote
  </div>
</div>

* [] a Bevy-branded editor UI mockup by `@Jacob_` and `@!!&Amy` on Discord, imagining what the UX for an ECS-based editor could look like
* [] [`bevy_animation_graph`]: a fully-functional asset-driven animation graph crate with its own node-based editor for Bevy
* [] [`space_editor`]: a polished Bevy-native third-party scene editor that you can use today!
* [] [`Blender_bevy_components_workflow`]: an impressively functional ecosystem of tools that lets you use Blender as a seamless level and scene editor for your games today.
* [] `@coreh`'s experiment on a [reflection-powered remote protocol], allowing devs to inspect and control their Bevy games from other processes, languages and even devices! [Try it out live]!

> It's really exciting to see this progress: and we're excited to channel that energy and experience into first-party efforts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's really exciting to see this progress, and we're excited to channel that energy and experience into first-party efforts.
```
